# project-2
### General Assembly, Software Engineering Immersive
### Tom Bannister and Emma Hobday

## Weather API

## Overview

This was a two-day paired project as part of the Software Engineering Immersive course at General Assembly London. 

The assignment was to build a React application that consumes a public API.

We chose to create a weather forecasting app, using DarkSky API. 

You can view the app on GitHub pages [here](https://emmahobday.github.io/project-2/), and find the GitHub repo [here](https://github.com/emmahobday/project-2).

## Brief

* Consume a public API
* Have several components - at least one classical and one functional
* The app should include a router with several 'pages'
* Stick with KISS (Keep It Simple Stupid) and DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) principles
* Include wireframes that you designed before building the app
* Be deployed online and accessible to the public
* Have semantically clean HTML

## Technologies used
* HTML5
* React
* CSS3
* JavaScript (ES6)
* Git and GitHub
* Google Fonts
* NPM


## Approach

Our vision was to create a beautiful app that would display weather information for cities around the world. We selected DarkSky API because the data it provided was so detailed - using it, we could display forecast infomation for the next minute, hour, or day. We used Bulma to style our app.

Our site has three main components: a homepage, a 'cities' page where you can select your city, and a 'single city' page which displays information for the selected city.

Our homepage is simple, using a full height Bulma Hero banner, with a link to our 'cities' page.

Our 'cities' page uses a classical component with data for a range of cities hard-coded into the state. We made the decision to hard-code this data for a number of reasons: DarkSky API doesn't provide images for cities, and at this point no forecast information was required from the API. We included the latitude and longitude of these cities in our state, as this will be needed to fetch the forecast data from the API on click. We laid out the page using a medium-height hero banner, using the same background image as the homepage for continuity, and Bulma cards to display an image and title of each city. Each card has the hard-coded data from the state passed down upon click, using a 'Link' from the react-router-dom.

SHOW THE HARDCODED DATA

Our 'single city' page uses another classical component. We used the life cycle method componentDidMount to fetch the data from DarkSky using Axios when the page loads. Initially we had a CORS issue which prevented us from retrieving the data, which we solved by using the CORS Anywhere to add CORS headers to the proxied request. 

ADD CODE HERE IF IT BEHAVES OF COMPONENTDIDMOUNT CORS

When the page renders, a medium sized Bulma Hero banner is positioned at the top of the page, with a background image and city name passed through as props from the Bulma card that was clicked. We also included a clock displaying local time in the selected city using moment.js - a task which provided many challenges, which are detailed in a separate section. We also included a button linking back to the 'city' page to allow the user to navigate our app easily.

We used Bulma tiles to lay out the forecast information in a visually appealing way. The temperature data provided by DarkSky is in Fahrenheit, so we converted it to Celsius and rounded it to the nearest whole number. DarkSky provides an icon in the form of a descriptor (e.g. 'clear-day') which we used to retrieve an image from darksky.net.

ALSO CODE OF WEATHER ICONS HERE

Our largest Bulma tile displays an hour-by-hour forecast for the coming 48 hours. We used the local time generated by moment.js to display the time it will be at each of these times; we did this by setting a variable 'counter' at 0 within our render function, adding 1 to the counter with each piece of data mapped, and adding this many hours to the local time. We then added a scroll function to our SCSS styling, and a subtle animation on hover.

`.daily {
  overflow: hidden scroll;
}`

ADD MORE CODE HERE ABOUT THE ANIMATION

We wanted to include a 'fade' at the bottom of our single city Hero banner - a task that proved less straightforward than it initially sounded. Our solution was to create a div element underneath our Hero banner, set its position to 'absolute' and set a linear gradient from transparent to white from top to bottom. 

`div.fade {
  height: 160px;
  width: 100%;
  position: absolute;
  align-self: flex-end;
  background-image: linear-gradient(180deg, transparent, white);
}`

## Running a local-time clock

Tom.

## Installation instructions for any dependencies

here

## Link to wireframes



